# Reflective Entry: E-Lit II

#### Lia DeCoursey

From our class readings and discussions this week, one main distinction I have found between electronic literature and other formats is that the electronic format gives the work a much wider spectrum of how and to what extent the reader can interact with the work. Thinking back to our earliest class discussions on the printing press and early book forms, the reader-author interaction was mostly limited to scribbles in the margins, but the electronic format allows for the reader's engagement in different ways, which raises some questions for me about the requirements of a book.

For the Electronic Literature Connection, I looked at a work called *soundpoems* by Joerg Piringer. To me, the most interesting aspect of the project was the amount of choice the reader had in how they want to interact with it. I was particularly interested by the section titled "food chain". In this section, the reader clicks on the screen to place vowels in a box, while consonants are floating around the box. If a consonant runs into a vowel, it "eats" that vowel and the sound of the consonant and vowel together is heard. If a reader wants to let random sounds be made, they can simply click randomly around the box and let the consonant and vowel sounds form on their own. The reader can also anticipate the path of a consonant and place a vowel in front of that consonant to have some say in the sounds that are made. For me, this brought up interesting questions about the reader's role and relationship with the work. 

How much control can/should the reader have over the content they're reading? Reading a book on paper, the reader is not able to rearrange letters or have any say in what words are formed. Though, thinking more abstractly, one could argue that different readers can interpret the fixed set of characters and words in a traditional book to have a wide range of meanings. Perhaps we can give more leeway to more abstract works: since the soundpoems don't form words or sentences in any meaningful way, the arrangment of letters is less important to the work than the experience and interaction itself. 

Additionally, is there a point at which the reading experience is so different from reader to reader that it can no longer be considered the same book? In the example of *soundpoems*, another section called "predator vs. prey" requires the reader to choose between A, E, I, U, M, R and S, and once clicked, those letters will buzz around the screen and disappear once they bump into another letter. The combinations of sounds that could be made in this section are practically endless, and depend heavily on the choices of the reader. Is a book required to provide some predictable or consistent experience from reader to reader? Choose-your-own-adventure books and Madlibs are both undeniably books and do not provide the same reading experience to each reader. And again, even with a novel, textbook, or other traditional book form, the reading experience can vary dramatically depending on the readers interpretation, biases, or reason for reading the text. 

In contrast, a work such as *First Screening* is almost less interactive than a paper codex. Unlike a paper book where the reader can flip around between chapters or skip to the end, a reader of *First Screening* is really only able to observe the poems as they pass by on the screen with no say in the order that they read them. There is also no way to "write in the margins" of a book like this, and the reader can't leave any sort of physical impression on it like they could a paper book. It is interesting to think of electronic literature as having such a wide range of reader engagement, spanning beyond the paper codex in both affordances and limitations.