# Reflective: Fabrication I: 3D Printing

#### Lia DeCoursey

One concept from the reading this week that stuck with me was the following idea from the article by Kendra Pierre-Louis: <br>

"It's easy to frame science and art as opposites on a continuum, with the former being hard, the latter being soft, and everything else residing somewhere along the middle. The book is art, but it pushes the limits of existing technologies." <br>

This week's readings and discussions have led me to look at art and science as subjects that work together and support one another, as opposed to being separate disciplines altogether. In my own life, I have always thought of myself as having a "science-y" side by studying physics and a creative side by playing music, but thinking about this more, I realize how important science and technology are in the development of musical instruments and music production. In my own experiences with music, I have to consider a lot of concepts relating to acoustics, which is really just a branch of physics. We need scientists and engineers to give artist's the tools to create new art forms, but we also need artist's to imagine the things that are not currently possible and drive these technological innovations forward. (And I'm realizing now that "scientists" and "artists" are not necessarily separate groups of people, either.) The 3D printed Albert Einstein book is a really compelling example of that relationship, and it is fitting that such a technically challenging piece of art would also be inspired by such a creative and forwward-thinking scientist.


I also found the concept of "thingification" in “Dialogic Objects in the Age of 3-D Printing: The Case of the Lincoln Life Mask” to be really interesting in the context of the interplay of art and science. My main scientific interests lie in fundamental particle physics, which is the study of the things that constitute our universe at the smallest level. This reading forced me to reflect on the fact that we refer to these things as "particles" and often draw them as circles or spheres when trying to represent them, even though we have no reason to believe that they exist as spheres. In fact, we know that these "particles" behave much more like waves - mediating between other forces and matter - than anything else. This is difficult for almost anyone to easily conceptualize, so we settle for the name "particle" and draw them as circles, no matter how misleading this is. Our desire to assign a "thingness" to everything in our world reaches beyond physics, however. To me, the Lincoln Life Mask is another example of our affinity for "thinigification". Although it's not necessarily misleading in the same way, the Life Mask is an attempt to capture the life and essence of someone in the form of a physical, tangible "thing". 


Lastly, I was thinking of the ways that technology in our day-to-day lives interweaves science and art. Software design, for example, is hardly ever about stricly practicality. I often describe apps or software that I enjoy using as having a nice interface or being pleasant to look at. These are qualities that go beyond the functionality of the software alone. This suggests that software development requires more than just technical skills, and that there has to be some consideration for the artistic qualities of the software as well. I really enjoyed reading about the Fashioning Circuits project, and it's an interesting observation of the spectrum of functionality and creativity. From a CO sensor hat to a dog sweater that lights up for visibility at night time, it is clear that even within one project, the relationship between functionality and creativity can change a lot.
