# Reflective Entry: Binding

#### Lia DeCoursey


This week's discussions have had me thinking about how the container of a text can often change our perceived value of that work. I think about my experience reading academic journals, and how the way that information is presented can vastly change an audience's opinion of the research without even understanding it. Scientific writing that includes too much elaborate or frilly language tends to take away from the research: readers will automatically assume that the style of the writing is an attempt to hide the fact that the findings are not impressive or well-supported. Alternatively, in my specific experiences in a neuroscience lab, scientists are constantly trying to make the most beautiful, impactful figures in order to communicate to their audience that their findings are important. Sometimes the figures aren't even particularly representative of the research as a whole. Since learning more about academia and publishing, I've found it a little funny, the contradicting ways in which the way that scientific research is presented can change the community's perception. In some ways, I was reminded of this when reading Baxter's Procrustes and the way that the book club makes such a certain judgement of the book's content based purely on its container.


The way that a book is physically presented can also change the author's message to their audience. Thinking back to "How to design an awarded letterpress printed book", the author discusses how the materials of the book were carefully considered, so that the book would be big but at the same time feel light. This was meant to match the lightness of the content of the work. Similarly, the binding was designed so that the book would lay flat, in order to emphasize the message of clarity to go along with the text/illustrations. As I start to design my book project, I'm thinking about the ways in which the layout of my book will affect the way that the information is communicated. I want to make a technical concept appear approachable and familiar to people, and while the actual representation of the diagram will be important for this, I must also consider the ways in which the container will communicate to the audience what is inside. 


In some ways, I think that a way a book interacts with its audience can take away the identity of 'book' altogether. In “‘Oh Look, a Ferry’; or the Smell of Printed Books”, the artists are interacting with the book in way that, to me, falls outside the verb "reading" even considering it in a more general or abstract sense. As I think more about my definition of a book throughout the semester, I've been wondering to myself if a book can lose its identity as a book based on whether or not it is read or consumed in some way. One of my favorite quotes that I've seen in our book presentations so far in this class is "A book is a place of knowledge-exchange—and always more expansive than we imagine it to be." (Bonnie Mak) If there is no knowledge-exchange taking place, can we still consider it a book? Is merely the potential for knowledge exchange enough to make it a book, even if it is never read? 

