# Reflective: Print II

#### Lia DeCoursey

A theme that I have noticed to be central to our readings and class discussions lately has been the way that technology, utility and art interact in print as well as other media. These three components of an expressive medium can hinder or inspire one of the others' development. 

Last year I had the opportunity to meet a well known contemporary composer in the wind band world, John Mackey. One of his characteristic modes is frequent and sometimes seemingly unnecessary meter changes, which is where the allocation and subdivision of the beats to the music are changed abruptly. During a Q&A session with Mackey, someone asked him why his music always includes so many meter changes. He told us that when he first started composing, the software he used to compose severely limited his ability to have any flexibility with meter, and he could really only write in 4/4. (Four beats per measure - the most common time signature what, and you'd normally hear in most pop songs) Being limited in this way while he was developing as an artist helped him to gain an appreciation for meter changes and unique time signatures. What was once a hinderance to Mackey's creativity, ultimately resulted in what I would consider to be one of his most notable qualities as a composer. In a related way, _Thinking with Type_ highlights how the invention of the letterpress forced people to be intentional about how they used blank space. I particularly liked the quote from my reading prep, from page 118: "movable type imposed a new spatial order on the written word." The technologies that we use to make art can often shape the rules we impose or the expressive modes we use. 

Another question that I kept coming back to during the week is, _to what extent is print a creative medium?_ One of my roommates is a graphic design major, and she has also read _Thinking with Type_. At one point, I told her how I was kind of confused/frutrated by parts of the reading because the author seemed to impose so many rules and restrictions (like the type crimes) onto what I perceived to be a creative medium. My roommate was pretty insistent that print media is much more technical than it is creative, and this kind of shifted my perspective. I also appreciated Lauren's comment during our class discussion that although there are rules imposed on print media, it is the breaking of those rules that can be used to create art. These discussions have made me realize that while print can be a means of expression, it also is more utilitarian than other media we usually consider to be art forms, such as music or dance. This changes, and sometimes limits, the way that the creative aspects of print take form.

The concept of bitmap typefaces was something that I had never really thought about until this class, and I feel that bitmap typefaces are a good representation of the interaction between utility and technology.  For my reading prep for Print II, I chose the font Chicago to research. Chicago was originally a bitmap font used by Apple, but as Apple's software improved, it evolved into a vector-based font and given a new name. While technology has in many ways expanded the utility of print, this could be considered an example of a way in which technology was limiting. Although bitmap typefaces like Chicago were (and still are in some contexts) more practical with the technology at the time, the fact that the typeface evolved with better technology suggests that it may not have been considered ideal even at that time. Thinking back to the Kern Your Enthusiasm article I read about Chicago, the author remembers their experience of Chicago on the first Mac very fondly, and even remembers it feeling very personal and "cute". Even though Chicago could have been considered limited by the bitmap format, its design and practicality seemed to be appreciated by many.