# Reflective: E-Lit 1

#### Lia DeCoursey


I had a wind ensemble concert the other weekend where four Boston-area college wind ensembles came together to play some music for each other. BU's band played two different pieces that featured an electronic soundtrack accompanying them. Without sounding too critical, it seemed to me that people were generally not impressed with their use of electronic music in coordination with their standard wind ensemble sounds. I thought about the possible reasons that the way that the group incorporated electronic music was disappointing for the audience. The main complaints that I heard from friends after the performance were that the addition of electronic music didn't add anything meaningful, and the band could have achieved a similar effect with their own instruments. I was reflecting on these shortcomings in the context of our e-lit discussions and readings, and I thought about the ways that a work like *What Football Will Look Like in the Future* is successful in using an electronic format to support its content where some others may fall flat.

To me, the most striking aspect of *What Football Will Look Like in the Future* when I first read it was the sense of urgency provided by the continous scroll of the web format. The act of scrolling through months and months of calendar made the passage of time impossible to ignore, and it shaped my perception of and connection to the characters in a very powerful way. In class we also discussed how the use of Google Earth figures throughout the story not only have the reader a practical sense of the games that the space probes were playing, but the reader could also see the world through the space probes eyes in quite a literal sense. 

These observations have led me to my own idea of what makes a successful electronic or interdisciplinary format for art. Ideally, the electronic format will not only be compatible with the content, but it will enhance the reader's/audience's interaction with the material. Relating this to the Jon Bois piece, the continuous scroll functionality of the web format is able to indicate the passage of time. The electronic format also helps the reader feel closer to or more understanding of the space probes. The fact that the electronic platform for Bois' story can deepen the reader's connection to the characters is part of what makes the electronic format successful. I also found that the continuous scrolling provided by the web format helped the story to feel more urgent. The concerns surrounding e-literature discussed in the first two readings for this week are reasonable concerns, especially in the context of some work that may not be at all improved by being converted to an electronic format. However, taking all of this into consideration, I think that what makes an electronic work successful or worthwhile is its ability to present content in a way that other media cannot.

I don't think this is a revolutionary concept, or one that should only be applied to electronic media; however, I do think it can be taken for granted sometimes with the excitement of newer formats constantly emerging that more advanced/complicated does not always equal better. 