# Reflective: Print I

#### Lia DeCoursey

## Letterpress Then and Now

Tthe class readings and discussions for this week provided insight for me into how we have interacted with print technology as it has evolved over the years.

One question we sought to answer in our class discussion was: what contributes to this idea of digital fatigue and makes something like letterpress so much more desirable in this day and age? One consensus was that a business card or invitation printed with letterpress is clear evidence that the printer put a significant amount of time and effort into the card. As we advance into a world where more of our lives are automated and digitzed, personal touches are frequently lost in communication, or are never even thought of in the first place. This brings back one of the readings for this week from Inkbot Design. One part of the end of the article reads: "Companies who want to stand out and have a vintage touch often use letterpress-printing style. A letterpress is considered original, nostalgic, hand-made, aesthetically appealing, and tactile." 

While the digital age has, in a lot of ways, enhanced the way we communicate with one another, it limits room for small touches that make the piece feel more thoughtful and special. This discussion led me to wonder if it's the slight nuances in the style of letterpress printing that make it more desirable, or if it is just fact that a reader/observer can tell right away that it likely took more time and thought to make. I'm reminded of one moment in my life recently that might be evidence for the latter. A few weeks ago I made some homemade hot chocolate mix for some friends as a thank you gift to them for a favor they did for me. I made the mix from scratch, put it in mason jars, and included a handwritten note with instructions to use the mix. Judging from the reaction from my friends, as well as other past experiences, a gift like this would almost always be preferable to a store bought version, even though I'm almost certain my hot chocolate mix won't taste any better than something from a package. This isn't meant to be an argument for why inefficiency is the only thing that makes letterpress printing desirable, but instead an example of how inefficiency can give something more meaning or value. 


Another interesting discussion from class was how our perception of what letterpress printing should look like has changed and how what was once desirable and what is now desirable have switched places. An important feature of the letterpress printer when it was first developed was its ability to replicate texts in a uniform and consistent way. This was a vast change from manuscripts which could take many forms when copied depending on the scribe who wrote them. Now, however, we value the small imperfections and impressions that letterpress printing leaves behind. Where printers would have once avoided any sort of indent in the paper from the type, we now praise that as an important signature of a letterpress. Conversely, printers from the letterpress era would have likely envied the surplus of resources that allows us to utilize so much empty space to enhance the design of a page. When resources were limited, page space had to be used as efficiently as possible in order to replicate the text. The Stephen Fry documentary revealed to me just how tedious it was to carry out a printing endeavor when the press was first developed. This meant that efficiency and utility had to be prioritized in order to meet the demand for books. Now that we have all the resources, automation, and efficiency that we need, we long for evidence of someone who has put more thought and time into a work than the digital age requies from us.