# Book Project Proposal

### Lia DeCoursey

## Concept
My book will be a flipbook containing an animation of a Feynman Diagram, which is a format that physicists use to represent what happens when subatomic particles collide or interact. A Feynman Diagram is usually representing multiple events occuring over time, whereas a flipbook would more appropriate for representing the distinct events that occur over a period of time. The particular diagram that I want to depict with this flipbook is a theoretical model that physicists are currently using to try to detect dark matter. This field of research is one of particular interest to me, and something that I am actually beginning research on this semester. As the semester progresses, and I can determine the difficulty of assembling this book, I may add multiple diagrams in the flipbook. (This will be an individual project.)

## Skills and Materials
The main skill required for this project will be drawing the actual diagram. This will require me to 1) draw the diagram with accuracy and maintain its scientific accuracy when changing it from its original form, and 2) have the drawing and design skills to communicate the diagram in a clear way. For the first skill, I plan to talk to an advisor in the physics department who I meet with occassionally, as well as review a couple of research papers to ensure that I have enough understanding to accurately translate this concept to a flipbook form. For the drawing/design portion, I may have to teach myself and practice these skills before creating the final form of the flipbook.

This will be a printed and bound book, which means that I will need paper and binding materials, all of which I will probably be able to find at a craft store. Hopefully I will obtain the knowledge I need to bind the book in class, but I may also use the internet as a supplement as needed. The only equipment I think I'll need will be a standard printer.

## Goals
The main goal of this book project is to take a scientific concept that is often inaccessible to many people, with education being a large barrier to entry for many scientific fields, and making it more accessible and compatible with a wider audience. While the original Feynman Diagram serves an important purpose in textbooks and research papers, I think my book has the potential to represent a way that we can make technical fields more available to people who don't normally have access to them. In order to achieve this goal, the book needs to have a structure and content that can clearly communicate the physical principles that are taking place. This may mean that I need to abandon some of the conventions for drawing a Feynman diagram, including more intuitive symbols, or full words instead of abbreviations. The main way that I will determine if the goals of this book have been met is if I can show it to someone with no background in physics and they learn something from it or get something out of it. (I think the ultimate sign of success would be if I could show it to my parents, who I sometimes have difficulty explaining my scientific interests to, and they were able to understand it. Thanksgiving week could be an opportunity to put this to the test right before presenting at the end of the semester.)

